Add new autodiscovery docs section for k8s (#2198)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/ingest-management/elastic-agent/configuration/elastic-agent-kubernetes-autodiscovery.asciidoc

[[elastic-agent-kubernetes-autodiscovery]]
= Kubernetes autodiscovery with {agent}

[discrete]

> == Autodiscover targeted Pods based on conditions

Author: `Conditions based autodiscover`.

    - add_fields:
        fields:
          container:
            name: kube-scheduler
          labels:
            component: kube-scheduler
            tier: control-plane
          namespace:
            labels:
              kubernetes_io/metadata_name: kube-system
            name: kube-system
            uid: 436369c1-cc50-4fdd-8212-d0215bf66ffa
          node:
            hostname: kind-control-plane
            labels:
              beta_kubernetes_io/os: linux
              kubernetes_io/arch: amd64
            name: kind-control-plane
            uid: d93dc62a-b103-4b81-b7cd-9eaf7957d6d2
          pod:
            ip: 172.18.0.2
            name: kube-scheduler-kind-control-plane
            uid: c052b569-c772-43e8-89cc-149ed6f5c69a
        target: kubernetes
    - add_fields:
        fields:
          id: 7b9754b983ec4e8b9bda39dfbe949a1b6b06c0316dc599031381707bb4ce23b6
          image:
            name: k8s.gcr.io/kube-scheduler:v1.21.1
          runtime: containerd
        target: container
    - add_fields:
        fields:
          cluster:
            name: kind-kind
            url: https://127.0.0.1:52500
        target: orchestrator
----

[discrete]

> == Autodiscover targeted Pods using hints

Author: `Hints (annotations) based autodiscover`

Standalone {agent} supports autodiscover based on hints from the provider.
The hints mechanism looks for hints in Kubernetes Pod annotations that have the prefix `co.elastic.hints`.
As soon as the container starts, {agent} checks it for hints and launches the proper configuration
for the container. Hints tell {agent} how to monitor the container by using the proper integration.
This is the full list of supported hints:

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/package`

The package to use for monitoring.

[float]

> ===== `co.elastic.hints/data_stream`

Author: This should be optional.

As soon as the container starts, Elastic Agent will check if it contains any hints and launch the proper config for it.
Hints tell Elastic Agent how to monitor the given container by using the proper integration.
This is the full list of supported hints:

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/package`

The package to use for monitoring.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/data_stream`

(optional) The list of data_streams to enable. If not specified the default data_streams will be enabled using the
default values as specified in the respective package/integration.

If data_streams are specified, then hints can be defined per data_stream like `co.elastic.hints/key.period: 10m`,
otherwise the data_stream will use the top level hints (`co.elastic.hints/period: 10m`) in its configuration.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/host`

The host to use for metrics retrieval.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/metrics_path`

The path to retrieve the metrics from.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/period`

The time interval for metrics retrieval, ie: 10s

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/timeout`

Metrics retrieval timeout, ie: 3s

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/username`

> The username to use for authentication

Author: Not yet :), in general this list will be expanded with the time being.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/password`

The password to use for authentication. It is recommended to retrieve this sensitive information from an ENV variable
and avoid placing passwords in plain text.

[float]
===== `co.elastic.hints/stream`

The stream to use for logs collection, ie stdout/stderr.

In any case if the specified package has no logs support a generic container's logs input will be used as a
fallback.

[discrete]

> === Available packages that support hints autodiscovery (standalone agent)

Author: Fair point. I will remove this extra note.

Having the hints mechanism enabled allows users deploying Pods on the cluster to automatically turn on Elastic's
monitoring for their Pod, at the time of deploying their Pods.
For example if we want deploy a Redis Pod on the cluster and want to automatically enable Elastic monitoring for it
we need to add the proper hints as annotations on the Pod:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: redis
  annotations:
    co.elastic.hints/package: redis
    co.elastic.hints/data_streams: info, key, keyspace
    co.elastic.hints/host: '${kubernetes.pod.ip}:6379'
    co.elastic.hints/info.period: 5s
  labels:
    k8s-app: redis
    app: redis
spec:
  containers:
  - image: redis
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    name: redis
    ports:
    - name: redis
      containerPort: 6379
      protocol: TCP
----

After deploying this Pod the data will start flowing in automatically. Note that at this point all the assets
(dashboards, ingest pipelines etc) related to the Redis integration are not installed and one would need to
explicitly install them through Kibana.

[discrete]
=== Hints autodiscovery: Troubleshooting (standalone agent)

> When things do not work as expected one would need to troubleshoot their setup. In that case many things can be wrong
> but here we provide some directions to speed up your investigation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When things do not work as expected, you may need to troubleshoot your setup. Here we provide some directions to speed up your investigation:
```

> . Exec inside an Agent's Pod and run inspect command to verify how inputs are constructed dynamically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Exec inside an Agent's Pod and run the `inspect` command to verify how inputs are constructed dynamically:
```

> 1. Exec inside an Agent's Pod and run inspect command to verify how inputs are constructed dynamically:
> 
> ["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
> ------------------------------------------------
> ./elastic-agent inspect -c /etc/elastic-agent/agent.yml output -o default -v -d "*"
> ------------------------------------------------
> 
> Specifically check how the inputs are being populated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Exec inside an Agent's Pod and run inspect command to verify how inputs are constructed dynamically:
+
["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
./elastic-agent inspect -c /etc/elastic-agent/agent.yml output -o default -v -d "*"
------------------------------------------------
+
Specifically check how the inputs are being populated.
```

> Specifically check how the inputs are being populated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically examine how the inputs are being populated.
```

Reviewer: It's kind of a picky editor comment, but it's best to avoid the word "check" because it has multiple meanings.

> . Check the logs of Elastic Agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. View the {agent} logs:
```

> 2. Check the logs of Elastic Agent:
> 
> ["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
> ------------------------------------------------
> tail -f /etc/elastic-agent/data/logs/elastic-agent-*.ndjson
> ------------------------------------------------
> 
> Verify that the hints feature is enabled in the config and look for hints' related logs like:
> "Generated hints mappings are ..."
> In this, you can find what are the mappings that are extracted out of the annotations and have an indicator
> if these values are able to populate a specific input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the logs of Elastic Agent:
+
["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
tail -f /etc/elastic-agent/data/logs/elastic-agent-*.ndjson
------------------------------------------------
+
Verify that the hints feature is enabled in the config and look for hints' related logs like:
"Generated hints mappings are ..."
In this, you can find what are the mappings that are extracted out of the annotations and have an indicator
if these values are able to populate a specific input.
```

> Verify that the hints feature is enabled in the config and look for hints' related logs like:
> "Generated hints mappings are ..."
> In this, you can find what are the mappings that are extracted out of the annotations and have an indicator
> if these values are able to populate a specific input.

Reviewer: Here's my attempt at an edit, but without seeing the log entries, the details here are a bit hard to parse.

```suggestion
Verify that the hints feature is enabled in the config and look for hints-related logs like:
"Generated hints mappings are ..."
In these logs, you can find the mappings that are extracted out of the annotations and determine
if the values are able to populate a specific input.
```

> . Check the logs of Metricbeat/Filebeat:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. View the {metricbeat} and {filebeat} logs:
```

> 3. Check the logs of Metricbeat/Filebeat:
> 
> ["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
> ------------------------------------------------
> tail -f /etc/elastic-agent/data/logs/default/metricbeat-*.ndjson
> ------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the logs of Metricbeat/Filebeat:
+
["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
tail -f /etc/elastic-agent/data/logs/default/metricbeat-*.ndjson
------------------------------------------------
```

> . Check how the target input template looks like, ie:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. View the target input template, for example:
```

> 4. Check how the target input template looks like, ie:
> 
> ["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
> ------------------------------------------------
> cat -f /etc/elastic-agent/inputs.d/redis.yaml
> ------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check how the target input template looks like, ie:
+
["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
cat -f /etc/elastic-agent/inputs.d/redis.yaml
------------------------------------------------
```
